---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/zettelkasten/being-and-time/"}
---



# Why is it relevant?
For [[Martin Heidegger\|Martin Heidegger]], the concept of Being has been forgotten in [[history\|history]]. But, how was this possible? In the beggining of [[Philosophy\|Philosophy]], [[Socrates\|Socrates]]/[[Plato\|Plato]] (this is a debatable topic, in which I won't enter to much in detail - it is said that Socrates didn't exist and Plato was responsible for the writings of [[Socratic dialogs\|Socratic dialogs]]) used to debate they're contemporany fellow people about the **real meaning** of words like [[Courage\|Courage]], [[Virtue\|Virtue]], etc. If you imagine a [[onion\|onion]], you have several layers. The greeks tried to understand what is the last layer of the [[onion\|onion]] from which the other layers we're based upon.    

Unfortunately, this question, according to Heidegger was lost throughtout time, it was forgotten. Why it was forgotten? One explanation is [[Language\|Language]]. The [[Language\|Language]] created epistemological dichotomies that later made the question *What is being?* forgotten. More than that, we seem to use this word unconscious, at least when the morphological ([[Morphology\|Morphology]]) structure is changed. Here are some examples:
- What **is** the meaning of life? 
- There **is** rain.

The attempt of [[Martin Heidegger\|Martin Heidegger]] in *On [[Zettelkasten/Being and Time\|Being and Time]] and [[Time\|Time]]* is to elaborate a new philosophy, in which he wished to include the concept of [[Zettelkasten/Being and Time\|Being and Time]], in order to uncover him from the of [[history\|history]]. More than that, he is going to pair the concept of [[Zettelkasten/Being and Time\|Being and Time]] with the concept of [[Time\|Time]]. I will explain more of this pairness down below. 

# Integrate this idea into the bigger picture 
As I said before, the question of [[Being\|Being]] started in Ancient [[Greece\|Greece]]. But, Socrates/Plato weren't only the ones that disccussed and tried to give a solution to this problem. This arises the question: Then, who disscused about the question of being?

Before, [[Socrates\|Socrates]]/[[Plato\|Plato]], the presocratic philosopher [[Parmenides\|Parmenides]] is engaged in the problem of [[Zettelkasten/Being and Time\|Being and Time]], while contrasting it to non-[[Zettelkasten/Being and Time\|Being and Time]]. I won't touch too much this subject, but he insisted that non-[[Zettelkasten/Being and Time\|Being and Time]], in comparison to [[Zettelkasten/Being and Time\|Being and Time]], is not able to exist, because it is [[Nothing\|Nothing]] itself. 

What about after the Ancient period? Some theologians, like [[Thomas Aquinas\|Thomas Aquinas]], [[Giordano Bruno\|Giordano Bruno]] and [[Spinoza\|Spinoza]] also approach this subject, but they we're more interested in what made [[God\|God]] so special. When I say "special", I mean that [[God\|God]] in comparison to humans, is already maxxed out (to use the terminology of [[Gaming\|Gaming]]). He is [[Omnibenevolent\|Omnibenevolent]], [[Omniscient\|Omniscient]], [[Omnipotent\|Omnipotent]] and so on. [[God\|God]] is [[perfection\|perfection]], while humans are not. Let's get back to the analogy of the onion. I said that it has several layers. The last layer is the one that every other layer is based upon. If that layer doesn't exist, than the other layers cannot exists. The question that I'm going to ask is the following: What is the ultimate layer of [[God\|God]]? Some said it was [[essence\|essence]], other [[Substance\|Substance]]. In any case, those mean, somehow, the same thing. Is it a thing that is not dependent on another thing. The *ultimate layer* for [[God\|God]], won't need something else to exists, because he is not dependent on it, while a building might be dependent on a builder in order to exists.     

Another philosopher who stressed out on the problem of [[Zettelkasten/Being and Time\|Being and Time]] was [[Rene Descartes\|Rene Descartes]].  
# The actual content told like a story.  
Now, it should be a clearer understanding on the problem of [[Zettelkasten/Being and Time\|Being and Time]]. But, still, what is [[Zettelkasten/Being and Time\|Being and Time]]? 

Asking this question is like trying to find an answer to another questions, which sounds something like: *What really makes a car, a car?* Is it the engine, the wheels? Not quite. The engine and the wheels are things that makes a car being visible, or in heideggerian terminology, [[Ontic\|Ontic]]. This word simply means that something is objectively  simply accesible to others. Everyone can see a car, anyone can touch it. If it is more simply to understand, extrinsic can also be helpful. This brings another word, which is *Seindes*, which in german means [[beings\|beings]]. [[Ontic\|Ontic]] is the property of being objectively accesible to all senses, and [[beings\|beings]] refers to the material things, like a bicycle or a computer. More than that, this word is responding to the question *What is?*
   
But, those words are not enough to answer the question of [[Zettelkasten/Being and Time\|Being and Time]]. We are not dealing with something physical, like the monitor or the keyboards. This "ultimate layer" is actualy non-physical? At least, this is what the philosophers and theoogians after Heidegger admitted to say. So, he also followed the same path. Something that is not physical, or the property of being non-physical is [[ontological\|ontological]], or intrinsec. The [[thought\|thought]], the [[mind\|mind]] or the [[emotion\|emotion]] are not accesible objectively, but subjectively. If one person, right now on earth, feels that he fallen in love, then this emotion will be only accesible to him and his crush will never know it.    

It is still enough in order to understand the question of [[Being\|Being]]? Yes, but the image is still empty. Why is that? Reading through the heideggerian books and terminology is like travelling into a forest labyrinth. If the [[Being\|Being]] is [[ontological\|ontological]], then how are you gonna acces it? Is it enought to ask *Who?* You can have a thought and an emotion, but how are gonna be so certain that you're gonna know for sure what is it? Is this really the actual thought that I had? Is this really the actual emotions that I had? The *Seindes* are able to answer to the question *What?*, but not to the question of *Who?* and this is the timp Heidegger brings another word into his philosophy, which is called [[Dasein\|Dasein]]. 

In order to understand this word, the first thing is to break it into several pieces, like a baby who is destroying his toy in order to explore the world around him. *Da*, in german, unlike in romanian in russian, means *here*, *now*. Then, *Sein*, is the equivalent of the english term [[Being\|Being]]. In conjuction, it resulted "[[Being\|Being]] now". So, why is it so special, in comparison to other *seindes*? 

First of all, it is a type of *seindes*. While there are things that are accesible to everyone, like a car or a cake, [[Dasein\|Dasein]] is actually accesible and non-accesible. So, this means that  is it capable of responding to the questions of *How?* and *What * and *Who?*. If yes, then, how is this possible?

The special trait of [[Dasein\|Dasein]] is the ability to reflect upon itself. So, if the [[Being\|Being]] of something would hold a mirror, he'll see himself. [[Dasein\|Dasein]] beings upon himself. This special trait is only available for humans. I think the reason for this is because the humans are the only creature on this planet (and of universe as we know for now know) that are self-[[consciousness\|consciousness]]. Of course, Heidieggger is telling notthing about this and this is just my interpretation. I don't really want to enter too much into the details here, but being self-[[conscious\|conscious]] is like knowing that you know, or being aware that you are aware. 

[[Dasein\|Dasein]] is capable of being-in-the-world. What does it really mean? I'm going to penetrate into the word *world*, because is pretty tricky in the heideggerian terminology. 

One meaning related to the fact that there is not just one [[Dasein\|Dasein]] in this world. The human population is around 8 billion... For every 8 billion people there is one Dasein. 

Another meaning is that Dasein is both ontological and ontic or intrinsic and extrinsic. I think this is possible because of the special trait of self-reflecting.   

As I said, we are talking about many Daseins. Every human has one. So, how do they relate to eachother? How does one Dasein relates to the objects? A concept for which Heidegger is stressing out a lot is [[Care\|Care]], and I'm not talking about fashion. [[Care\|Care]] for Heiddegger, is like a mom who is treating his child, (or should be), or a friend who is helping you out. What is happening when someone is getting help from someone else. What happens to a Daseins, when it gets help from another Dasein? For Heidegger, there are two possible results for that? First of all, the Dasein is forgotton, is being put under the rock, so that everything is dissapearing. There are people (P2) who received a major help from another person (P2) and nstead of being selfish, they felt that they needed to give something in return. What did P1 realised? He put a rock under the P2 Dasein. They're are not anymore self-aware of themselves. Another case is when one Dasein might get under a rock temporary. I would take the same example. But, P2, instead didn't lose they're Dasein and they would not be so willing to make the favor in return to P1, at least not for they're entire life. They might be graciously to P1 but after a while, they forgot the help and they are back into they're Dasein. Because we are talking about the relationship of other Daseins, and how the Dasein of one human might be forgotten, because is not something sticky and can be in many case be in underattack is fair to bring into the discussion the archetypal nemesis of *Dasein*, that is the *Impersonal is*.

So, I compared [[Dasein\|Dasein]] to self-consciousness, the ability of being aware of what you're aware. Then, I insisted that this [[Dasein\|Dasein]], even if is "inside you", this doesn't mean that it will not be forgotton. The [[Dasein\|Dasein]] can be threated by either the help of one [[Dasein\|Dasein]], or by the society, in general. What do I mean by that? In the publich space, [[Dasein\|Dasein]] is in relation, in connection to other social structures, like work, or social responsabilities. The human attention instead of being focused into what he is living inside him ([[Dasein\|Dasein]]), he is concentrated into what is outside him, on what is really impersonal. This is we're the archetypal nemesis is knocking the door, throwing the door into your face, leaving blood and suffering. The boss is telling you that you should not exists. Your mom is upset because you don't listen to his dogmatic beliefs. The teacher is mad because you didn't studied. Just like a bullet, that is injecting itself into the body of the unlucky, this is creating the possibility of the Dasein to be forgetton by the human. The shift, from self-consciousness to outside self-consciousness is happening. 

Even if he doesn't say it directly, Heidegger here might suggests that the *Impersonal isu* might be neccesary. (Necessary Evil). In order to attain the-fact-self-authenticity, the human must pass itself to the path of the *Impersonal is* to the [[Dasein\|Dasein]]. In order for [[Dasein\|Dasein]] to exist, in other words, the [[Impersonal Is\|Impersonal Is]] must exist.

What about the relationship between objects and [[Dasein\|Dasein]]. The-fact-of-being-useful is understood by something that has the ability of being useful. Simple-presence is about a thing that exists, but doesn't have a utility in itself. It is just there. But, a thing that is simple-presence, can become a thing of the-fact-of-being-useful. I will give the following analogy. The mountain, when someone is looking at it, is simple-presence. But, when he realised that the mountains contains free cash, he is gonna get it. The usefulness, the fact-of-being useful is found into the value of the mountain. Another way to see the usefulness of something is by seeing the results of it. One can see a shovel to be useful, because you can dig in a grave. Another can see the mountain being useful, because he will make him rich, and so on. This examples are relating to the ontic, extrinsic facts. More than that, after something becomes useless, it losses the fact-of-being-useful and gets back to the simple-presence. Think, of a mouse. After the right or left click's buttons are destroyed, it is no longer useful, because you cannot interact with the screen anymore. Another fundamental element is the fact that this is making [[Dasein\|Dasein]] capable of apearing.   
 
# Do you have any other questions?
1. Does self-[[consciousness\|consciousness]] is the same thing, more or else, with [[Dasein\|Dasein]]?
2. Does [[Care\|Care]] means to take the awareness of another Dasein, in order to take his hw whole Dasein?
3. How one [[Dasein \|Dasein ]] is able to make another [[Dasein\|Dasein]] aware that he has a [[Dasein\|Dasein]]?
# Did you identify any gaps in your explication?
1. I'm not sure how to explain the philosophical implications of Descartes into the problem of Being.
2. I don't think that Giordano Bruno or Spinoza we're engaged in the problem of being. rof  
3. I'm not able to explain why Dasein is ontological and ontic. u
4. I should be more clarely and cautiosly on the analogy in regards of P1 and P2. 
5. I'm not sure of how [[Dasein\|Dasein]] can appear after an object is no longer useful. 
6. 
## If yes, fill the gap right here.
1. "If the [[Distance\|Distance]] of something can be dissipated, does it mean that the [[Distance\|Distance]] of [[Dasein\|Dasein]] itself could also be dissipated? Can a human get his [[Dasein\|Dasein]] in the trash? We saw that this can happen by [[Care\|Care]]. But, that's not the single element that led to this. The everyday activity of man, which is making someones homework, helping his mom, and buying a nice ring to his wife are not the acts of [[Dasein\|Dasein]], but the acts of [[Das Man\|Das Man]]. What does [[Das Man\|Das Man]] means? [[Dasein\|Dasein]] by being thrown into the world, is subjected to other [[Dasein\|Dasein]]. Unfortunetely, those [[Dasein\|Dasein]] can and will be able disconnect himself from him. Instead of being a *Who?* it becomes an *What?* that is contributing to the creation of a society that is destroying him. [[Martin Heidegger\|Martin Heidegger]] goes as further as to say thaat [[Das Man\|Das Man]] is not helping him achieve authenticity, but inauthenticity. [[Das Man\|Das Man]] is the system itself, that is only able to respond to the question of *Who?* (Is not [[Dasein\|Dasein]]), but only the question of *What?* More than that, it is able to substract the [[Dasein\|Dasein]] of the people, so that they're *real self* (Heidegger is not using this analogy, but I think it might make clear what he tries to say), the *authenticity* of [[Dasein\|Dasein]] is being taken away. That's why I was reffering to [[Das Man\|Das Man]] as the archnemesis of [[Dasein\|Dasein]]. But as I grab more knowledge, I think it is also the archnemesis of *Authenticity*, because his role is to make yourself alienate from what you are, because of the society that knows the *question of what*, but not the *question of who*." I don't really like this expression right here and it should be expressed in another way. 
   
# Do you intend to make a visual representation of the idea? If yes, choose your champion.

# Space repetetion
## After One Week
While [[Martin Heidegger\|Martin Heidegger]] is not starting his book by explaining what [[Phenomenology\|Phenomenology]] is, I think this is what it needs to be done for now. Analyzing the etymology of this word, it is composed by two greek words: [[Phainomenon\|Phainomenon]] and [[Logos\|Logos]]. I'm going to analyse both of them shortly.

[[Phainomenon\|Phainomenon]] means "what is brought into [[Light\|Light]]. Simbolically speaking, this signifies knowledge that can be perceive by the eyes. [[Logos\|Logos]] is more richer for it's significance, but [[Martin Heidegger\|Martin Heidegger]] limits himself to the concept of [[Discourse\|Discourse]], what can be told by language itself. So, if language is profoundly related to thought or if [[Language\|Language]] exists with [[Thought\|Thought]], then what's in your mind should be expressed to someone else easily. What is in your [[Thought\|Thought]] is [[Experience\|Experience]]. Sometimes, unanalyzed experience can be difficult to understand, so it's not in the light itself, it's unknown to the subject that is experiencing this. So, in order to enter into the realm of the knowledgeable, it must be brought into the light. The meaning of [[Phenomenology\|Phenomenology]] is, hence, (1) What is expressed by [[Language\|Language]] + [[mind\|mind]] that is bringing experience into the realm of the Known. For [[Edmund Husserl\|Edmund Husserl]], the founder of [[Phenomenology\|Phenomenology]], the role of this subfield of philosophy ([[Logos\|Logos]]), or science  was to play a huge role in discovering scientific knowledge. Unfortunetely for him, something similar is making the newly developed [[Scientific Method\|Scientific Method]]. His methodology, hence is a failure, similar to what [[Phrenology\|Phrenology]] did. But, it still remains as an important sub-field of philosophy today.   

 A similar method [[Martin Heidegger\|Martin Heidegger]] also tried to developed in his book, but it wasn't the experience itself that interested him, but the question of [[Being\|Being]]. *What is Being?* The reason for why this seems to be a far-fetched question is because it has been forgotten in modern philosophy, at least in the eyes of [[Martin Heidegger\|Martin Heidegger]]. [[Rene Descartes\|Rene Descartes]] and [[Immanuel Kant\|Immanuel Kant]] didn't approached the question of [[Being\|Being]]. [[Rene Descartes\|Rene Descartes]] thought that [[Substance\|Substance]] or more exactly, the divine substance of [[God\|God]], who is *ens increatum* was inaccesable to human itself. More than that, he thought that only *seindes* like [[Res Cogitans\|Res Cogitans]] or [[Res Extensa\|Res Extensa]] we're accesible. But, Martin couldn't agree with that one.  Moreover, [[Language\|Language]] did it's best for contributing to the dissipation of this question throughout history. So, it must not surprise anyone that tries to read [[Zettelkasten/Being and Time\|Being and Time]] that the [[Language\|Language]] is very, very hard to understand. One reason for it's hardness is because [[Martin Heidegger\|Martin Heidegger]] intended to *create* a new *language* in order to expressed his ideas. Unfortunetely, the collocquial german language wans't enough for him, so he headed towards the traditional german language, adding his philosophical terminology.  (created)   
 
 The goal for this book is to answer the question of [[Being\|Being]]. To do so, he firstly clear some ambigouities about it. [[Being\|Being]] is not something general, self-evident of inexistent. . Then, the heideggerian torture starts by introducing his terminology. What is a *seindes*? It translates it to *to being*. This simply means, what is physically surrounding you: *cars*, *computers*, *tables* etc. A synonym for *seindes* are objects. Another being is human itself, because it has flesh and it visible. *Seindes* is answering the *question of what*. *What is this?* and *seindes*comes and says that it is a laptop, a computer, a human. But, the case for human is interesting, because you cannot answer just the *question of what*, for the human. In addition, the *question of who?i* but be added to the equation. But, *seindes* cannot answer the *question of who?* So, what must be done, then? These two question are important to understand what *Daseind* really is. That's why the term [[Dasein\|Dasein]] must be brought into the context. So, what is [[Dasein\|Dasein]]. 

One way, and the most simple way to understand [[Dasein\|Dasein]] is by defining it as human, because they are the sole creatures in this planet that can answer the question of [[Being\|Being]]. You will certainly won't put a cat to answer such a philosophical question, because unlike humans, they are not aware of themselves, as we are, and they don't have language to express such complex thoughts.    

[[Dasein\|Dasein]] is dressing himself many important traits. [[Dasein\|Dasein]] is [[being-in-the-world\|being-in-the-world]]. What does it mean? It means simply [[World\|World]]. There are many significations of the [[World\|World]], but for now it should be focused on the relationship of [[Dasein\|Dasein]] to another [[Dasein\|Dasein]]. This [[Relationship\|Relationship]] is manifesting itself by two words: [[Fursorge\|Fursorge]] and [[Besorge\|Besorge]]. These two words have attached to eachother the word [[Sorge\|Sorge]], which means in german - [[Care\|Care]]. [[Care\|Care]] is one way that [[Dasein\|Dasein]] is interacting with *seindes*, more precisely with another [[Dasein\|Dasein]]. This can be done in two simple ways:  

(1) One Dasein is taking away the [[Dasein\|Dasein]] of someone else. The second Dasein, in other words is not aware anymore of it's surrounding (more precisely, of the dificulties in his exitence), because another Dasein is taking care of them.

(2) The second action of [[Care\|Care]] is to make another [[Dasein\|Dasein]] aware that another [[Dasein\|Dasein]] that he has a [[Dasein.\|Dasein.]]. 

[[Dasein\|Dasein]] is also able to interact with other *seindes* by, which are not exclusively [[Dasein\|Dasein]], but things that are [[Ready-to-Hand\|Ready-to-Hand]]. When something is [[Ready-to-Hand\|Ready-to-Hand]], it means that is able to bring a positive consequence and is useful. Isn't an laptop useful? You might ask yourself, why? Because you can navigate ans scroll into social media, in order to learn, explore or whatever you wish to bring as a consequence (i.e. pleasure). So, a laptop is [[Ready-to-Hand\|Ready-to-Hand]] because is useful to get you closer to get pleasure. But, not everyone perceive a laptop as being [[Ready-to-Hand\|Ready-to-Hand]]. That's why a classification must be needed. 

(1) Useful. The object itself is useful, so it bring positive consequence. 
(2) Useless. The object is not useful, hence it won't bring any consequence at all.   
(3) The transition. The object becomes useful, but, as times fades away, it stops to  be (become) useful. 

This brings a question. Does proximity matter for something to be useful, [[Ready-to-Hand\|Ready-to-Hand]], *vorhanden*? For, [[Martin Heidegger\|Martin Heidegger]], the. [[Spatiality\|Spatiality]] (the relationship between two objects) itself doesn't matter. Is this the truth? Between two objects, there is a void, which is called in [[Physics\|Physics]] as [[Distance\|Distance]]. Hence, between two objects there is something between them. Kilometers, minutes etc. So, isn't it self-evident that you cannot use something that is out of reach? You cannot ask the president of United States to bring you coffee. You cannot get a banana from India, if your destination is in France. Isn't it logical?

Yes, but for [[Martin Heidegger\|Martin Heidegger]] [[Distance\|Distance]] is not defined by kilometers or minutes, but by [[Ready-to-Hand\|Ready-to-Hand]]. [[Dasein\|Dasein]] has the ability to make something far-away to something near, in order to be [[Ready-to-Hand\|Ready-to-Hand]]. What does this means? 

Heidegger is giving the example of the [[Sun\|Sun]]. What can a [[Sun\|Sun]] do? The [[Sun\|Sun]] is the biggest star in [[Milky Way\|Milky Way]] and the nearest to the [[Earth\|Earth]]. Throughout history, the [[Sun\|Sun]] was used, USED to build churches, graveyards and to develop the clock, in order to measure the time. Even if the [[Sun\|Sun]] is far away from the [[Dasein\|Dasein]], this example is demonstrating the usefulness and the capacity of this *seindesed* to transform something that is far away, to something near, not in the meaning of [[Distance\|Distance]], but to the meaning of [[Ready-to-Hand\|Ready-to-Hand]]. That is called, [[De-Distance\|De-Distance]] and this happens when something is brought closer to [[Dasein\|Dasein]] in order to be more useful and [[Ready-to-Hand\|Ready-to-Hand]].      

If the [[Distance\|Distance]] of something can be dissipated, does it mean that the [[Distance\|Distance]] of [[Dasein\|Dasein]] itself could also be dissipated? Can a human get his [[Dasein\|Dasein]] in the trash? We saw that this can happen by [[Care\|Care]]. But, that's not the single element that led to this. The everyday activity of man, which is making someones homework, helping his mom, and buying a nice ring to his wife are not the acts of [[Dasein\|Dasein]], but the acts of [[Das Man\|Das Man]]. What does [[Das Man\|Das Man]] means? [[Dasein\|Dasein]] by being thrown into the world, is subjected to other [[Dasein\|Dasein]]. Unfortunetely, those [[Dasein\|Dasein]] can and will be able disconnect himself from him. Instead of being a *Who?* it becomes an *What?* that is contributing to the creation of a society that is destroying him. [[Martin Heidegger\|Martin Heidegger]] goes as further as to say thaat [[Das Man\|Das Man]] is not helping him achieve authenticity, but inauthenticity. [[Das Man\|Das Man]] is the system itself, that is only able to respond to the question of *Who?* (Is not [[Dasein\|Dasein]]), but only the question of *What?* More than that, it is able to substract the [[Dasein\|Dasein]] of the people, so that they're *real self* (Heidegger is not using this analogy, but I think it might make clear what he tries to say), the *authenticity* of [[Dasein\|Dasein]] is being taken away. That's why I was reffering to [[Das Man\|Das Man]] as the archnemesis of [[Dasein\|Dasein]]. But as I grab more knowledge, I think it is also the archnemesis of *Authenticity*, because his role is to make yourself alienate from what you are, because of the society that knows the *question of what*, but not the *question of who*  
